Layer Name:		Fishchart2008.shp

Layer Type:	      	Polygon

Date:			March 4, 2008

Status:			Editing completed 3/4/08 should be checked through
			usage.  Please report any errors to contact person.

Geog. Extent:		Hawaiian Archipelago Islands.  Region within the rectangle
                        encompassing from 32 degrees N Lat by 178 degrees W Long
                        (3 degrees north and west of Kure Atoll) to 10 degrees N Lat
                        by 150 degrees W Long (9 degrees south and 5 degrees east
                        of the Island of Hawaii)

Projection:	      	None (Geographic Coordinates - Degrees, Minutes, Seconds)

Datum:			North American Datum 1983 (Zone 4)

Description:		State of Hawaii Commercial Fish Catch Statistical Areas,
                        including a more detailed coastline for the Main Hawaiian
                        Islands, recognized islets and the Northwestern Hawaiian
                        Islands (major natural and manmade features throughout
                        the Hawaiian Archipelago).
		
Source:			Hawaii Department of Land & Natural Resource's
			Division of Aquatic Resources (DLNR-DAR).

History:		Input via coordinates (Grid) and digitized by DAR staff in
			1992 from a chart produced for DLNR By Manoa Mapworks in 1990
			(revised in 1993) and distributed to commercial fishers for
			reporting purposes with their Commercial Fish Catch Reports.
                        Original layer created using "GenCoast" was highly inaccurate
                        and covered only the Main Hawaiian Islands (MHI, the eight
                        large islands between Ka'ula Rock and the Island of Hawaii).
                        The layer created in 1993 had been revised around 2000,
                        incorporating several errors, which had to be corrected
                        (among other things, areas south of Molokai and Ni'ihau
                        were incorrect, Ka'ula rock was distorted and the offset
                        of inshore areas in the MHI was increased considerably).
                        The coastline was upgraded by selectively deleting the MHI
                        and replacing it with the higher resolution
                        (Hawaii) Office of Planning's (OP) "Coastline" layer.
                        OP's "Islets" layer was added and additional corrections
                        were based on aerial imagery from the DOQQ's (ref).
                        To this Northwestern land features (islands, shoals, reefs
                        and atolls NW of and including Ka'ula Rock)
                        were added from U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic
                        and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA),
                        National Ocean Service (NOS), National Geodetic Survey (NGS)
			Publication_Date:20011002. Some of the NWHI shoreline had
                        to be corrected using satellite imagery.
                        Layer created by M.K. Lowe (2007).  Commercial fishers in Hawaii
                        are required by Statute to provide monthly reports of their catch.
                        These data are reported by species, geartype and statistical
                        area.  The data are confidential and are used for
			assessment and management purposes only.


Attributes:	

	Polygons:

	FID		Polygon Feature. Internal Arc/Info sequential 									polygon number for the coverage.

	SHAPE		Polygon.

	AREA		Area of the polygon (units decimal degrees)

	PERIMETER	Length of the perimeter of the polygon (nautical miles)

	AREA_ID		Numeric ID for the area, as designated on the
			original DLNR/DAR Commercial Fisheries
			Statistical Charts (Produced for DLNR by Manoa
			Mapworks, 1990, 1993).  Numbers range from 100-
			1000 for the inshore Main Hawaiian Islands (Niihau
			to Hawaii) and from 10000-30000 for offshore areas
			and inshore areas in the Hawaiian Archipelago and
			Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.
			Additionally:	9995=lagoon, brackish pool
					9996=manmade onshore feature
					9997=manmade coastal feature
					9998=land, islets, exposed rocks
					9999=exposed reef or intermittent shoreline.

	AREA-A		Alphabetic ID for sub-area designations, used to
			report bottomfishing locations in the NWHI.
			Nine letters, ranging from A-I, which follow the
			area number, subdividing a one-degree square into
			nine smaller areas

	TYPE		Character variable describing the type of feature
                        or classifying Fishchart polygons not included in areas
                        9995-9999 into broad geographic categories
                        MHI=Main Hawaiian Islands or NWHI=Northwestern Hawaiian Islands
			and these may be either Coastal, Inshore or Offshore

	CHART		Alphabetic (A-H), designating subsections
			(different map extents) of the overall chart
			(greatest extent is shown in Chart A)

	REEFNAME	Named reefs within the NWHI (NW of Ka'ula Rock)

	NOTES		Information on the source for outlines used

	ISLAND		Name of the island, islet or atoll
			(ref: Mary Kawena Pukui "Place Names of Hawaii"
				or known Hawaiian name preferred)

Contact:		M. Kimberly Lowe
			State of Hawaii
			Department of Land & Natural Resources
			Division of Aquatic Resources
			1151 Punchbowl St., Rm 330, Honolulu, HI  96813
			telephone:	(808) 587-0114.
			email:		Kimberly.Lowe@hawaii.gov